Analogy is defined as a parallel that is drawn between two different, but significantly similar events, situations, or circumstances.The given pair of words has a certain relationship, which needs to be identified, and then you have to pick the correct alternative on the basis of instructions given. 

In an analogy you are supposed to identify the relationship between two pairs of words and find another pair of words that correspond as closely as possible to the first pair

Analogies based on Vocabulary – The words used are tightly connected with their dictionary meanings.
Analogies based on Relationships – A few analogies are not based upon actual dictionary meaning but there is a tight connection between the two words.

Analogies are usually constructed using nouns, adjectives and occasionally constructed using verbs.If the first capitalized word is an adjective the first word of each answer will also be an adjective. And since the second capitalized word is a noun, the second word of each answer choice will also be a noun.

Types of Analogies:
Relationship of degree(MARATHON: RACE, TORNADO: WIND)
connection between a person and a tool. 
one event follows another either as a matter of logic or sequence or as an effect follows its cause.
Part and Part
Object and Action
Here the two objects are nouns, where one is dependent upon the other
In this case one word is the function of the other
Nouns of Opposite Gender.
Singular and Plural
Object and Place
Object and Container.
Sequence
Doer and Deed
Man and Hobby

You must not take more than 20 seconds to attempt an analogies question.
Step 1: Try and identify the relationship expressed by the highlighted pair of words
Step 2: Now look at the alternatives and see if you can spot the correct answer.
Step 3: If you have been unable to spot the correct answer, try and eliminate two of the most unlikely choices.
Step 4: Having done this look for a second level of relationship in the highlighted Pair and use that to arrive at the correct answer.
